# Universal Data Stream protocol security

UDSP has a strict default security model that strives for a minimum of perfect forward secrecy. Keeping clients anonymous, private, & secure as possible by encrypting all app related data. Each client has a minimum of two long-term linked keypairs one serves as the primary backup while one can be taken and used on the go or per-service so accounts and wallets could always be recovered or restricted in the even of it being compromised. It also sets a strong cryptographic standard for clients and services. When a client connects to a service it generates an anonymous keypair used for one time during the handshake while also supplying their identity certificate in the body of the packet which is encrypted. This on the fly generated keypair is used along with the servers slave keypair to establish an encrypted connection. So far that is 3 keypairs at play one of which is just for authenticating and logging into a service known as the client's identity certificate. The server then generates a new anonymous on-the-fly throw-away keypair to generate a new pair of secret keypairs during the same handshake process to establish perfect forward secrecy covering both backward and forward secrecy. A similar strategy Signal (App) uses being the double ratchet strategy is also possible on UDSP via the reKey event for both client and server to create perfect forward secrecy within the same session. It could also be done between packets but if not needed should be realistically avoided. Such over use of the ReKey process will make the connection feel less performant & would be an increase usuage in computation resources.

A possible strategy to speed up processing while using a constant reKey event is to have a ASIC dedicated to quickly generating keypairs en mass so that local servers could request them instead of generating them. This has its own usecases but generally should be avoided when possible. This can also be done to generate keypairs for the initial mandatory rekey event.

### Notes

The second keypair is considered the more ephemeral one out of the two longtern keypairs typically referred to as the slave keypair. The master keypair is the first and primary keypair out of the two and is used for backup in the even the used ephemeral keypair is compromised.

## UDSP Security Compared to HTTP3

UDSP is more secure than HTTP/3 by default and is more secure than HTTPS/3 by default. UDSP has several processes that ensure far greater security such as being able to have the domain certificate and connecting keypair prior to connecting to a server. That process to UW's DIS is also encrypted so no one would be able to tell what domain certificate was being asked and given. That domain certificate is also ephemeral and can be changed in real-time across the Universal Web. Furthermore UDSP uses AEAD encryption by default specifically xChaCha20poly1305. Connection handshakes are all encrypted and modern handshakes with AEAD algorithms are used to establish encrypted connections. There are exactly 4 minimum keypairs utilized during a handshake in UDSP connections providing strong security gaurantes out of the box without any configuration required. UDSP is designed to phase out old encryption algorithms and adopt new ones en mass. XChaCha20 has proven itself to be faster than AES meaning must faster connection speeds are possible. UDSP currently prefers the use of xChaCha20 over AES variants (has some controversy) which has been argued by some to not be considered over xChaCha20.
